README.md, before:

# Building the `learningtower` package from raw PISA data

We present `learningtower`, an `R` data package for the [PISA data published by OECD](https://www.oecd.org/pisa/data/). The package is available at https://github.com/kevinwang09/learningtower and via CRAN at https://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/learningtower/index.html.

The most intensive component of publishing this data is the curation of the triennial data to ensure consistency. This repository, `learningtower_masonry` is a repo that documents clearly how every data is curated from its raw form to a curated form. 

# Workflow in OzUnconf 2019

+ Every contributor for this package was assigned with a particular year of the survey data. 
+ Raw data were downloaded in the `Data/Raw` folder (due to size constraints, the raw data were never commited to GitHub). 
+ Each contributor was responsible for cleaning one survey data by writing appropriate scripts in the `Code/yyyy` folder, where `yyyy` is the year of the survey. 
+ The cleaned data were placed in the folder `Data/output/yyyy`. The student data was named `stu_qqq.rds`. The scholl data was named `sch_qqq.rds`.

## Variable naming consistencies between different years

The main challenge that the contributors encountered was to ensure the consistency of variables between different years. For instance, the highest schooling of a student's mother was never recorded in 2000, but it was coded as "ST11R01" between the years 2003 to 2012 and "ST005Q01TA" between the years 2015 and 2018. These variables were manually curated by all contributors as a factor variable, "mother_educ", in the output data.

## Reading in SAS and SPSS data

PISA publishes data in both SAS and PRSS format for all survey years. Where possible, the `.sav` file was used to read in the published raw data. The only exception was in the year 2000, where `.sav` files were not published and instead, `.txt`files with SPSS scripts were published to allow for the creation of `.sav` files. In order to resolve this, we used the SPSS software to perform conversions of `.txt` files to `.sav` files. 

## Identical school/student ID doesn't refer to the same school/student

It should be noted that it was possible for schools to receive the same school ID even within the same year. Consider the following example:

```r
load("~/Desktop/learningtower_masonry/Data/Output/student.rda")
library(tidyverse)

student %>% 
  group_by(year, country_iso3c, school_id) %>% 
  tally() %>% 
  filter(school_id == "1001")
#> # A tibble: 14 x 4
#> # Groups:   year, country_iso3c [14]
#>     year country_iso3c school_id     n
#>    <int> <fct>         <fct>     <int>
#>  1  2000 ALB           1001         19
#>  2  2000 CAN           1001         32
#>  3  2000 ESP           1001         20
#>  4  2000 FRA           1001         13
#>  5  2000 HUN           1001         19
#>  6  2000 ISR           1001         20
#>  7  2000 LUX           1001        157
#>  8  2000 NLD           1001         15
#>  9  2000 POL           1001         16
#> 10  2000 THA           1001         19
#> 11  2006 MEX           1001         25
#> 12  2006 THA           1001         34
#> 13  2006 KGZ           1001         33
#> 14  2006 LTU           1001         27
```

This means that the school ID is only unique within the year and the country.

Commit message:

Add 2022 data entry (#1)
* Add 2022 data entry

including codebook, code and output data

* upload excel file and update _urls and README files

adjustment for pull request

README.md, after:

# Building the `learningtower` package from raw PISA data

We present `learningtower`, an `R` data package for the [PISA data published by OECD](https://www.oecd.org/pisa/data/). The package is available at https://github.com/kevinwang09/learningtower and via CRAN at https://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/learningtower/index.html.

The most intensive component of publishing this data is the curation of the triennial data to ensure consistency. This repository, `learningtower_masonry` is a repo that documents clearly how every data is curated from its raw form to a curated form. 

# Workflow in OzUnconf 2019

+ Every contributor for this package was assigned with a particular year of the survey data. 
+ Raw data were downloaded in the `Data/Raw` folder (due to size constraints, the raw data were never commited to GitHub). 
+ Each contributor was responsible for cleaning one survey data by writing appropriate scripts in the `Code/yyyy` folder, where `yyyy` is the year of the survey. 
+ The cleaned data were placed in the folder `Data/output/yyyy`. The student data was named `stu_qqq.rds`. The scholl data was named `sch_qqq.rds`.

## Variable naming consistencies between different years

The main challenge that the contributors encountered was to ensure the consistency of variables between different years. For instance, the highest schooling of a student's mother was never recorded in 2000, but it was coded as "ST11R01" between the years 2003 to 2012 and "ST005Q01TA" between the years 2015 and 2018. These variables were manually curated by all contributors as a factor variable, "mother_educ", in the output data.

We created an online spreadsheet to document the change of variables between different years, please go to [PISA Variables' Table](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1yuwYUO3A9fBThuMFnTZaP_Bb8lD0TF5w7lPvoEo7HvU/edit?gid=0#gid=0){.uri} for reference, and the excel file is saved in codebook folder as well.

### Problems in 2022

Several variables may be missing due to the reconstruction of questionnaires. For instance, a question regarding student's possession of desk is not recorded in 2022, but it was coded in previous questionnaires, hence these variables were manually curated by all masons as an character variable in the output data. Another important issue we faced is a missing variable `WEALTH`, this variable could be used to estimate a student's socioeconomic status. So for further related analysis or research, another variable called `ESCS` (economic, social and cultural status) is more suitable.

## Reading in SAS and SPSS data

PISA publishes data in both SAS and PRSS format for all survey years. Where possible, the `.sav` file was used to read in the published raw data. The only exception was in the year 2000, where `.sav` files were not published and instead, `.txt`files with SPSS scripts were published to allow for the creation of `.sav` files. In order to resolve this, we used the SPSS software to perform conversions of `.txt` files to `.sav` files. 

## Identical school/student ID doesn't refer to the same school/student

It should be noted that it was possible for schools to receive the same school ID even within the same year. Consider the following example:

```r
load("~/Desktop/learningtower_masonry/Data/Output/student.rda")
library(tidyverse)

student %>% 
  group_by(year, country_iso3c, school_id) %>% 
  tally() %>% 
  filter(school_id == "1001")
#> # A tibble: 14 x 4
#> # Groups:   year, country_iso3c [14]
#>     year country_iso3c school_id     n
#>    <int> <fct>         <fct>     <int>
#>  1  2000 ALB           1001         19
#>  2  2000 CAN           1001         32
#>  3  2000 ESP           1001         20
#>  4  2000 FRA           1001         13
#>  5  2000 HUN           1001         19
#>  6  2000 ISR           1001         20
#>  7  2000 LUX           1001        157
#>  8  2000 NLD           1001         15
#>  9  2000 POL           1001         16
#> 10  2000 THA           1001         19
#> 11  2006 MEX           1001         25
#> 12  2006 THA           1001         34
#> 13  2006 KGZ           1001         33
#> 14  2006 LTU           1001         27
```

This means that the school ID is only unique within the year and the country.
